**Total Cost of Ownership**

Almost all organizations ask for TCO and ROI (return on investment).
Solid business case need to exist before migration can begin.
These are value metrics you will be measured against.

TCO or ROI
Pure TCO: 
- Cost calculations: cost 1st year, second year, etc. 
- Metrics to measure cost. 
- How does that differ moving to cloud vs on prem

Transitional Costs: 
- What will cost to get from on prem to cloud. 
- Needs to have business case
- When does money come back

Return on Investment:
- Full program Costs vs Value Calculations
- After everything has been ironed out like refactoring costs, governance changes, security, etc.
- Looking at costs are vs your value metrics that are to be determined
- Produce set of metrics/predictions for use of cloud

Value Realization:
Will differ based on type of business

| Weight |                Value |
| :----- | -------------------: |
| 92/100 |      Improve Agility |
| 83/100 | Improve Productivity |
| 78/100 |  Improve Scalability |
| 76/100 |     Increase Revenue |
| 56/100 |        Decrease Cost |

Reasons and value of these things will vary business to business based on their goal and what the cloud can do to utilize these goals they have

Things to do
- Current State Assesment
  - Application inventory estate-level assesment
    - Sample application assesment
    - Full estate inventory
    - Application migration approach
  - Service levels and operational environemtn assesment
    - Curreent infrastructure and operational costs
    - Current state architecture qualities and requirements
    - Availability, security, compliance, scale, performance, resiliency
    - Current state operational models and processes
    - 
- Future State Architecture
- TCO Model
- Business Benefits/ROI

Top Five TCo/ROI Overlooked areas
- Value of agility, some people don't consider it as valueable of an asset that it really is
- Costs to retire selected applications, infrastructure, or data centers. Tax issues around stopping using hardware/software, etc.
- Changes required to maintain service levels. What needs to change to move everything to cloud with services being used by cloud provider
- Software Costs, how much software will cost to run on prem vs in cloud
- Organizational transformation costs, cost to change personnel, location, etc.