# Core Modules Ch 4
core.js

util module provides more information in the logging to the terminal, all thats needed is to require the module.
v8 gives some system information such as the heap usage.

can also do destructuring with the modules, so basically being able to statically call a method reference from the module
example is 
```javascript
const util = require("util");
const {log} = require("util");
```
so now can just call log(etc), instead of doing util.log()

# Readline
ask.js

readline question first param is what to be asked, second is callback function for once question has been answered.

# Write a file
questions.js 

more complex file using readline to answer questions with functions taking in params and a callback.

# Export custom modules
myModule.js and app.js

can export module and be picked up using require in another file.

# Create a module 
Reusability, moving function collectAnswers into its own file in the lib folder and changing so it exports as a module.
newQuestions.js and collectAnswers.js

by adding done as 
```javascript
done = f => f
```
lets the callback function be optional and does nothing so it doesn't break the code.

# Custom events with EventEmitter
events.js
emitter.emit first param is name of the function, next set represents data you want to pass to the handler of the event.
events are also asynchronous

# Improving a module with EventEmitter
making adjustments to collectAnswers.js using EventEmitter and adding listeners into questions.js